A.I.M. - Automated Investment Manager
A senior project for the Middlebury College Computer Science Department
completed by Campbell Boswell and Scott Westvold

1. Description
With recent advancements in deep learning, neural networks have become extremely adept at pattern fitting and recognition. One discipline where pattern detection is central to advantageous outcomes and the derivation of insight is financial  market research and analysis. Over the course of the Fall 2018 semester we examined the potential for deep learning to predict market events by combining  neural networks with sentiment values derived from Twitter posts. This repository contains the source code from the project, as well as files necessary to reproduce our Twitter dataset.

2. Prerequisites
DO WE NEED A FULL LIST OF PACKAGES AND DETAILS ON HOW TO BUILD AND RUN OUR SOFTWARE???

For the machine learning algorithm `main.py`:
1. Keras must be installed.
2. Tensorflow must be installed.
3. With these packages the testing module of the Machine Learning algorithm main.py can be run and it will run the testing module function which is specified to be run as part of main on line 288. 

4. To get next day predictions the 7 excel data files 30yearTbill.csv, 10yearTbill.csv, 2yearTbill.csv, totals.csv, financials.csv, gspc.csv, and sentiment2.csv must be up to date from March 30, 2000. Or in the case of the sentiment2.csv January 1, 2018. Then on line 275 and 279 the number of training examples must be changed to account for the increased number of days from the beginning to the end of the datasets.

3. Contents

twitterBot.py -     
    Leverages the Tweepy user_timeline function to pull tweets posted on a specific user's timeline (specified in user_index.csv) during 2018.
    Stores the Tweets in a MongoDB collection that is unique for each user.

processTweet.py -
    Filters Tweets based on content so that only relevant tweets are analyzed and scored for sentiment. The filtered Tweets are defined as those which contain the name or ticker symbol of a company listed on the S&P 500 or Tweets which contain a reference to the market in general (as defined in market_keywords.py).

analyzeTweet.py -
    Performs lexicon-based sentiment analysis using an opinion dictionary created by University of Illinois at Chicago researchers Bing Liu and Minquing Hu. Sentiment scores as calculated as daily positive and negative totals. Additionally, overall Tweet frequency is calculated and output as a CSV to be conveniently fed to our market analysis learning algorithm.

config.py -
    A file containing the access keys for the Twitter bot we use to access the Twitter API.

generateVisualization.py -
    Generates a series of visualizations used in the final presentation and report for this project.

companies.csv -
    A CSV file listing all of the companies on the S&P 500 as of Fall 2018.

company_filter.py -
    A list with a series of common words that are included in the names of corporations listed on the S&P 500. These words do not count as keywords which can distinguish a Tweet as relevant

constituents_filter_except.py -
    A dictionary with a series of first words from the names of companies on the S&P 500. The value pairs are the subsequent words in the company names. This dictionary is used during the filtering process.   

market_keywords.py -
    A series of keywords used in the filtering process to indicate that a Tweet
    is relevant to overall market trends or sentiment.

negative_words.txt
    The negative word sentiment dictionary generated by Bing Liu and Minquing Hu.

positve_words.txt
    The positive word sentiment dictionary generated by Bing Liu and Minquing Hu.

user_index.csv
    A list of the Twitter usernames for the users who comprise our sample set.

2yearTbill.csv
30yearTbill.csv
10yearTbill.csv
    Data-sets of daily US treasury bond prices.
 
 sentiment2.csv
    Excel file of daily twitter sentiment data from 2018. 
 
 totals.csv
 financials.csv
 gspc.csv
    Daily stock index datasets from March 2000 through October 2018.
    
dataprocessing.csv
    The data reading module of the machine learning algorithm which is called by main to generate training and testing datasets.
  
feature_extraction.csv
    The module tasked with extracting features from simply NumPy arrays of the daily csv data read in by dataprocessing.csv. This module                               is called by dataprocessing.csv.
    
main.csv
    This module runs the machine learning algorithm and testing function. It also has the functionality to give next day trading predictions. However in order to do this the datafiles must be up to date and the number of training examples must be updated with the date as specified in line 275 and line 279.
  
